and welcome.
Thank you for joining us today.
I think you're going to find this a
very useful session especially in your
market where you need to do backups.
My name is Chris Bledsoe.
I'm the
Senior Enterprise Alliance Manager and
I manage all of our backup
vendors here for Apple Computer.
So let's get going.
Have you ever had this happen to you?
Back in 1996,
I worked for Oracle and we had this
product that was called Oracle Card.
Does anyone remember Oracle Card?
Alright, well anyway,
I was building this presentation
on this Mac so I could go
do a show similar to this.
And as I went to the show, late night,
you know, you're doing your coding work,
you're getting your demo set up,
Boom, my hard drive crashed.
Like 3 in the morning, you know,
on a Thursday night, you're like, great.
So, literally for the next 8 hours,
I had to recreate all
the material that I had.
And sure enough, I didn't have a backup.
So, for me, as an individual for
doing a presentation,
8 hours was difficult enough.
But in enterprise,
it's absolutely critical.
That kind of time for an enterprise
can easily represent millions
of dollars of cost to you and
your enterprise and your business.
That's why it's absolutely
critical that you have backup.
So, some of the things we're
going to talk about today,
some of the backup trends that we're
seeing occurring in the market today.
Everything from regulation
compliance to the types of
backup windows that we run into.
Also, what I'd like to talk about
is our backup market segments.
What we did is we kind of looked
at the whole market and said,
okay, what type of backup needs do our
customers for Apple really need?
And I'll talk in more detail about
whether it's an individual system,
a laptop, a Power Mac, a Power Book,
all the way scaling up to
large SAN type deployments
like with our XN product line.
So, the goal of this session is
so that when you get done,
you'll have an idea of, okay,
what kind of backup solution can I use?
Because there's a number of vendors
out there available for you,
as well as find out what solutions
work on the platform today.
So before I dig into all
of the backup material,
I'd like to cover a few terms first.
The first one is Fibre Channel.
Fibre Channel is a technology
for transmitting data from your
computer service across your network.
So it's a communication capability.
It's really great for Fibre Channel when
you have like storage devices
that are hooked up to the network.
Which kind of leads me to the
next idea which is called RAID.
Redundant Array of Inexpensive Disks.
Or sometimes they're called independent
disks as it says on the screen.
The idea with the RAID is that
instead of having a single disk,
which has all of your
data and it could fail,
you set up an array or
a number of those disks.
And typically you want to do
that for a couple reasons.
First of all, you want to do it so
you can get performance.
So instead of reading from a single disk,
you can read across a set of
disks and be able to access
that information very quickly.
Also you want to do it
for fault tolerance.
So in case a disk goes down,
you either have replications
of that data on the other disk
so you can get access to it.
We're not going to really
drill down into the RAID today,
like the different RAID levels.
We have a great session on
XSERV deployment and for RAID,
XSERV RAID deployment that you
should definitely be checking out
and we talk a great deal about that.
Also, there's this concept of
network attached storage.
Right, so what you do here is instead
of taking your hard drive storage
like a RAID server and attaching
it to your departmental server,
what you do is you break it away and give
it its own independent network address.
The advantage then is that your
applications that are running on
the server don't have to compete on
the processor with your disk access.
So by separating and putting
your data on the network,
it makes it much more efficient for your
server to get access to the information
and still have access to this data
in a very fast and efficient way.
Which leads on to- so you've
got this network attached
to storage area networks.
This is a network that oftentimes
is based on fiber channel,
but it can be based
on other technologies,
where you have multiple disks that
are on your network talking to
multiple servers that are also on this
high-speed interconnect technology.
Which- so that's what a SAN is.
Now, that leads to what's called HSM,
Hierarchical Storage Management.
What that does is it says, "Okay,
now I've got these disks on my network,
how do I manage the migration of that
data from one disk set to the other?"
And that's what HSM tries to address is,
"Okay, how do I manage it?"
Which leads to the last term,
ILM, Information Lifecycle Management.
And that's managing the whole
stack from birth of the data when
it's created to its obsolescence,
when you no longer need it and you can
actually safely delete it and move on.
So those- just want to make
sure you understand some of
the terminology that we'll be
covering today in our presentation.
Storage requirements.
Did anyone here have stock in a WorldCom?
[Transcript missing]
It takes a long time
to backup a terabyte.
So even if you're doing
like disk to disk,
and I pulled some of my
good backup vendors here,
you're typically looking
anywhere from two to four hours,
depending on what kind of throughput
you can actually push through
your fiber channel network.
So that's just to backup a terabyte.
So you can imagine as you're working
in high video demand type environments,
the need to be able to shrink
that backup window and be able
to address it effectively so you
can still get access to the data
you need and safely archive it.
[Transcript missing]
And the other thing that
you've seen to happen,
especially in large enterprises,
is that each administrator for that
server becomes their backup person.
So you end up having a lot
of administrators backing
up their own servers.
So if those administrators
are heterogeneous in nature,
you know, Apple, Linux, etc.
Then what they end up doing
is they have to be specialized
on their own specific server.
Which kind of led up to
this idea of backup clients.
And this is probably the most
popular and most well-known.
So the idea here is that you
take your backup client and
you have a backup server.
The server talks to the client and says,
"Okay, today is Wednesday at noon.
It's time to take all your data and put
it on the tape library." So it's a nice,
very easy,
disk-to-tape type of backup scenario.
This is great if you have a
ton of different operating
systems in your network.
All of my vendors here have client
for not only on our platform but also
across all the different permutations.
I've talked to some that have up to
60 different operating systems where
they have client backups so that
they can actually get access to their
clients and back it up to the server.
So, generally you have good performance,
right?
Depends.
It depends on how fast your actual
network is that your backup server
is connected to your backup client.
That really defines it.
And it's very easy to add new platforms,
right?
Because all you've got to do
is you call up your vendor,
you go, "Hey, I added XYZ box.
I need to get a client for that."
They put it on there and it works
within your existing infrastructure.
That's why it's so popular.
But there's some problems, right?
For example,
if you have a large backup and
restore or a large backup window
like we saw on that earlier slide
for backing up just a terabyte,
it's a little hard to
get it timed up right.
Typically what you want to do is
this thing called multiplexing where
you're writing to multiple tape
libraries at the same time because
you're trying to backup many people
in a similar timeframe like overnight.
and it really doesn't solve the
problem of these large backup windows.
If you're backing up with
say five terabytes a night,
it's kind of hard to do
that with just tape backup.
Which led to the evolution of
what's called disk-to-disk-to-tape,
which probably a lot of
you have heard about.
Very straightforward concept.
So what you do is you take your backup
client and you back it directly to disk.
Very quick, very efficient,
using the maximum bandwidth there.
And usually you do that
on a more periodic basis.
And then as your data gets old,
you know like an ILM type technology,
you're going, "Okay,
I no longer need to keep this
on my disk because I've had
it backed up for a month.
I'm probably not going
to look at that data.
Why don't I just go ahead and
archive it?" And archiving
is definitely very important.
Because when you archive it,
that's when you usually take it off-site,
right?
So that way if there's a fire or
there's some other kind of physical
danger thing that happens to your data,
you've got off-site storage
and you can get access to it.
So that's typically what you do.
This disk-to-disk-to-tape.
What's really,
really good about this is you get
this centralized administration.
Right?
You don't have the problem where you
have a bunch of different administrators
managing a bunch of different servers.
You generally can reduce the
number of administrators you
have focus exclusively on backup.
It also gives you easy
access to this critical data.
So for example,
if you're doing a backup every day
or every hour or every half a day,
right,
you can get access to the data that,
you know,
you actually need to go on a file,
I need to go get that information,
I gotta put it back on.
You know,
you're able to do that pretty easily.
It also takes advantage of the great
throughput you can get to your disk.
Right?
So now you're getting disk to disk,
you're taking advantage of it.
You're not being slowed down
by doing your archival backup.
and then you migrate the data, right,
as it gets less expensive media.
So instead of sending it on your drive,
you can actually put
it up onto your tape.
There's some challenges
obviously with that,
right?
So the more moving parts you have,
the more complex it becomes,
which makes it a little bit
more of an expensive solution.
And because of all those things,
it tends to create a
little bit more overhead,
although you have fewer administrators,
you have a little bit more
overhead in managing that.
So that kind of led to the
next thing that we see a lot
of is what's called land free.
And this is important.
The problem you'll see with disk to
disk to tape is that you're doing this
transfer of data over your network.
Well, you can create these conflicts,
right?
So if it's the same network,
you're doing normal network activity,
then you're also throwing all
your data across it for backup,
you kind of create these problems.
That's why you see things like land free.
So in this example,
using something like an XSAN solution,
you see that we map the drive
on your XSERV RAID to an XSERV.
All right,
so it's now mapped as a regular drive.
Your clients hit the XSAN.
You let that server access it
just like they normally would.
Then when it does a backup,
it goes through the network.
So you never touch--that's
why it's called land free.
You never push the data through the LAN.
You're always pushing it
directly from the server within
your fiber channel fabric.
Great.
Very, very fast and the most efficient.
Right?
Because you're able to take
advantage of this really nice,
dedicated,
high bandwidth communication to get
your data to the appropriate area.
You get the advantages of central
administration and it's a great
use of your backup resources,
right?
So now you're using your fastest network
for your data and the most efficient.
Very similar to the other one,
it's a little bit more complex,
a little bit more expensive and more
overhead in your administration.
But it's a trade-off, right?
Because you get that better
performance for your data.
So as you see here,
we have a whole slew of backup vendors.
And some of the obviously
recognizable ones like Legato,
Veritas,
but even great people like BakBonne, CA,
Quintex, Tollis Group, Danz, Atempo,
Archerware, Avail,
all the different vendors
that we've worked with.
So what I do here in this next slide is
kind of give you an idea of the different
types of solutions that are available.
So for example, everybody's got clients,
right?
And we have a lot of vendors
who are now- they see the light.
They get it.
They go, "Okay, great.
Apple has a lot of storage.
We need to have more server
solutions available on the market."
So that's why you see a whole
slew of guys over here doing betas.
But today, if you needed to buy,
we basically have three vendors that have
a production solution available today.
Danz, Tollis, and SGO.
So I wanted to kind of give
you an overview of here's the
different types of architectures.
Here's why we got to be able to back
up our data and why it's critical.
So now what I'd like to do is introduce a
few of the guest speakers that I brought.
When we looked at the market,
we kind of broke it down
into three basic groups.
We got one end where your
cost is the lowest and your
complexity is the easiest.
It's an individual workstation, right?
This is your laptop,
this is your desktop.
You know, the need to backup your
own individual one.
And then as it becomes a little bit
more expensive and more complexity,
you access the small work group.
These are typically departmental
level or small group levels.
It's like what we do
in my own organization.
I have my own little server.
It backs up about five or six of us.
And, you know,
it's that work group server solution.
But then you need this capability at
the really high end for corporate.
If you're backing up terabytes of data
and you've got much information across
different areas all over the network,
that's when you need it.
Which leads me to my first person
I'd like to bring up from Dantz.
Retrospect.
And I'd like to introduce...
Pat Lee.
Hi Pat, welcome.
Thanks.
Thanks very much, Chris.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
So Dantz was founded in 1984.
We started out in the Macintosh
and we shipped our first
Macintosh backup product in 1985.
It was actually for an iOmega
product called the Bernoulli Box,
if anybody can remember back that far.
We've been in the backup and
restore industry for 20 years.
We have two key US patented technologies,
one of which I will talk
about later and more in depth.
And we've been working closely
with Apple for many years.
We've initiated a number of
server backup programs with them
and a number of Apple Firsts.
Over 3 million computers worldwide
have purchased licenses of Retrospect
protecting their data today.
and we partner with many
leading hardware vendors.
For example,
I mentioned iOmega earlier back in 1985.
We're now partnering with them today
as they announced their RebDrive,
their new low-end tape replacement.
One of our products is bundled with it.
And we are also bundled, for example,
with the new Exabyte
VXA2 FireWire library,
which if you haven't seen yet,
you've wanted an easy connect solution,
go take a look at it.
FireWire Interconnect,
perfect solution for your XServe today.
And we have a product line that
ranges from small home offices of
a couple users to large departments
of a couple hundred users.
The one thing we focused on is making
sure this is an easy to use product.
Most people aren't backup administrators
that are dealing with this.
They want something they can install and
get up and running within a few minutes.
Most customers can install Retrospect,
start their first backup,
and start protecting their data
within five minutes of install.
We think that's very
important in this market.
But on top of being easy to use,
it's also flexible.
We support a wide variety
of backup mediums.
We support tape, which has been the most
popular backup media to date
for small and medium business.
And we support it whether
it's connected via Firewire,
SCSI, Fiber Channel, you name it.
We also support hard disk backup,
which is very key for either
low-end or even high-end customers.
And for customers who need
off-site backup needs,
we also offer FTP backup.
We have backup clients
that support Macintoshes,
whether they start in System 7 Max,
running PowerPCs still all the way up
through the latest Panther clients,
Linux clients, or Windows clients.
One of the things that we
focus on is intelligence.
We understand storage.
You shouldn't have to understand
all the complications.
We should handle this for you.
One of the things we have is called
progressive incremental backup.
And what that does is
it allows you to say,
"I just want you to backup this set
of computers." And I'm going to say,
"Do this progressive backup."
The first time Retrospect backs up,
it automatically backs up everything.
The next time it only backs
up the new or changed files,
sends the last backup to
a particular set of media.
And the reason a particular set of
media is important is that you want to
have more than one set of backup media.
If you're relying on one set of backup
media to protect your business and it's
in the building and something happens,
you don't have a backup.
If it goes away with
your building going away,
you don't have a choice.
So you need to have off-site
and on-site backup sets.
By actually keeping track of your
on-site and off-site backups differently,
we can give you complete protection for
both sets that's up-to-date and current,
so you can restore from either set
without having to worry about it.
The other thing that's intelligent
about the approach of progressive
incremental backup is that we
have single-instance storage.
Everybody in this room,
I look around here,
I see a lot of bright Apple logos
facing me in the eye from
your Powerbooks and iBooks.
That means there's a lot of people out
there whose data is not on a server.
They need to protect it.
And the important thing about that is
there are a lot of common files in use.
What happens if we all have
Microsoft Office installed?
Do I want to backup ten copies of
Microsoft Office across the network?
No, I want to backup one copy and
the other nine I should keep
track of so I can restore them.
Retrospect does that.
We only need to backup one copy of every
unique file in a particular backup set.
It saves you space and time and it makes
it more effective for your backup media.
Security.
Again, multiple baseline backups are key.
If you don't have
multiple baseline backups,
that means if you're doing
incrementals against one full backup
and you lose that full backup,
your incrementals are useless
against doing a complete restore.
Multiple baselines are key in
protecting your entire network.
And complete verification by default.
We do byte-for-byte verification of
your data because if there's something
wrong between writing the data to disk,
tape, optical, and we go back and don't
read it byte-for-byte,
there's no guarantee it
was written 100% correctly.
Personally, I was backing up to disk
recently and I had a bad firewall
cable on my personal backups.
The verification pass caught the
problem with the bad cable and showed
me the files that were corrupt.
Verification is key to
your backup strategies.
[Transcript missing]
While we're talking about backup today,
it doesn't matter about backup.
Chris's story told you a lot.
You need to be able to restore the data.
And Retrospect was designed
to restore your data.
The most common restore we see
from years of doing this is that
people need to restore a few files.
Because that's the common case.
Oops, I made a mistake.
I overwrote my budget Excel file.
I've committed the save.
How do I get this data back?
It's not a problem.
Retrospect allows you to search
for a wide variety of criteria.
I can find all Excel files created
by Chris in the last two weeks,
and it will go and just find
those in all my available backup
media easily in one place.
It's very key to help you narrow down
your search for your important files.
But it's when disaster strikes that
you care the most about restore.
Nobody ever wants to think about it,
but it happens.
Retrospect has what we create snapshots,
which are basically an image
of what the computer is like
every time it's backed up.
So every day, assuming with Retrospect's
progressive incremental backups,
the first day you do a full backup,
and then we do incremental
backups every day since then,
we still keep track of all the
files that have been moved,
renamed, deleted,
and then we do a backup every day.
We still keep track of all the
files that have been moved,
renamed, deleted, and then we do a backup
every day since then.
We still keep track of all the
files that have been moved,
renamed, deleted, and then we do a backup
every day since then.
it on the computer at every backup stage.
So if I need to restore my
computer after multiple incremental
backups to three days ago because
I either deleted some system,
I got a virus,
or I had an issue like that,
you tell Retrospect restore to
that point in time three days ago,
and it will restore that computer
to exactly that point in time
at the time of the backup.
So if I moved, renamed, or deleted files,
they're not going to
come back in my restore.
If you've been doing restores
from other traditional products,
which do fulls and incrementals that
don't track the state of your computer,
when you do the restore
to that point in time,
you're going to get back files you moved,
renamed, or deleted.
You don't want that.
You want your computer to be back
to the exact point in time it was.
And to help you aid in
that worst-case scenario,
Retrospect includes a bootable disaster
recovery CD that you can boot off the CD,
do the restore,
and make your life easier without
having to first reinstall the system.
So thank you very much for your time.
Tomorrow we'll be in the Enterprise Lab,
IT Lab.
If you have any questions from 9 to 2,
if I remember correctly.
Is that correct, Chris?
Yep, in the morning.
And thank you very much.
Thanks Pat.
So now what I'd like to do is introduce
our next featured speaker who from
our- the TOLUS group that they
target their solutions called BRU.
It stands for Backup Restore Utility.
I thought that was a very makes
sense kind of name for your product.
And you can see that they're
targeted pretty much in the middle.
Although almost all of my
vendors here can scale from
the simple to the high end.
I was trying to get them to look at okay
what's their- what they're known for.
And so without further ado, Tim Jones.
Hi Tim, welcome.
Thank you Chris.
Did I break it?
Okay.
Brew is- Yeah, we've got a good backup,
so.
Brew has been around for going
on close to 19 years now.
We have been a strong contender and a
strong player in the Unix market space
because that's where we came from.
We grew out of
Motorola technology in the middle,
early 80s,
and we've worked our way onto just about
every Unix platform that you can imagine.
And if any of you guys have got
a Unix platform that I don't
currently have a copy for,
if you'll give me an
SSH login in 30 minutes,
we're there.
We picked up OSX and started supporting
it in 2001 based on some requirements
of our existing customer base.
We have Solaris users and
AIX users and HPUX users and
Cray users that were bringing
OSX boxes into their environments.
And they said, "Hey,
why can't we use Brew to back
those up too?" So we got the calls
and we started taking care of it.
Our team does one thing.
We do backup and restore.
We don't do database reporting.
We don't do games.
We don't do word processors.
We partner with every major tape and
library vendor running out there.
Some of them you know.
Some of them you don't know.
There are just literally
millions of existing licenses.
How many people have
ever used an SGI box?
Well, if you've done a system backup,
you've used Brew.
How many people have ever used
Motorola's back in the old days
when they were using the 8800?
Well, you were using Brew.
Some of the older Linux installs
from folks like Red Hat and
those guys included Brew in
the actual operating system.
And again, like I said,
all we do is backup.
One of the most important
elements that Chris hit on is
reducing that backup window.
How many of you have four
days to perform one backup?
We got one hand back there.
I didn't think I was going to see many
hands there simply because we don't.
We need to get the data into its
backup environment as rapidly as
possible and be that staged on disk
as Chris mentioned or onto tape,
whether it be a standalone
or a library environment.
We need to reduce the amount of
time that that operation requires.
The thing that Brew brings to the table
here is we provide very high throughput
rates and very low CPU overhead.
Primarily, a good example,
we have users that are constantly using
Brew in multi-drive scenarios where
they're backing up to and streaming
data to multiple drives simultaneously.
And on a 1.33 GHz XSERV,
our numbers look like load factors
of about 0.4 with CPU utilization
of about 22%. What this means is
that while that backup is going on,
you're actually able to
continue doing useful work.
We do our verification quite
differently from most others.
Every 2K of data that we
pull off of your file system,
we apply a 32-bit checksum to.
The result is,
when it comes time to do a verification
of the data that's on the tape,
we only need brew and the tape.
We no longer need your file system.
So for those of you that are doing
live backup with live verification,
we just sliced your
backup window in half.
We incorporated disk-to-disk
capabilities directly into our
current Bruce Server product.
Some of you have come by,
I see some faces out there that
I recognize when I cover the light.
And one of the things that we've
done is we've added this technology
right into the product native.
You don't have to buy it as an add-on.
Because we realize, again,
we've got to reduce that backup
window to help you be successful
in your administration tasks.
By writing to disk, two things happen.
First of all, as Chris said,
you're getting disk-to-disk speed.
Your only limiting factor is
your network infrastructure.
But, in addition,
if you've got lots of clients out there,
if you're backing those
clients up to tape,
those clients are having to take turns.
You're backing up one client,
it's finishing.
You're backing up the next client,
it finishes, and so on.
With a disk stage environment,
all of your clients can
backup asynchronously,
limited only by your network bandwidth.
If you're dealing with systems
where you've got 100 or 200 megs of
data that changes on a daily basis,
an average incremental backup can
take as little as 10 or 15 seconds.
So when you- when dealing with staging.
So when you look at it
from that perspective,
all of a sudden,
now this work group stage backup window
has just reduced itself dramatically.
Finally, as Chris mentioned,
the next thing to do with staged
data is to put it onto media that can
then be stored either safely on-site
or off-site as Pat was mentioning.
The key there is, again,
how do I do this without interfering
with my daily work schedule?
Well, because bruise upstaging occurs
between simply the server on
which the server application is
running and your tape library,
again, the rest of your network backup
environment is not involved at all.
So you're not- you can
do this at your will.
It doesn't matter.
And again,
because of bruise low fingerprint
and- or footprint and low overhead,
even the server that we're running
on does not recognize a serious
impact with that operation.
Finally, on the upstage,
when we upstage that data from
your stage disk to the tape drive,
we actually replicate the data
into a tape backup as if you
wrote it originally to the tape.
So, in other words, when it's time to
restore a client's data,
it's a one-step restore.
You're taking the data from the
tape and returning it to the client.
There's no need to restore the
upstage environment to the stage
disk and then restore to the client.
We are about 92% POSIX.
Our core engine is just
a whopping 290K on OSX.
The 8% that's there that's not
POSIX applies to supporting OSX Tape I/O,
OSX Disk Record Utility,
which will be coming
in an upcoming release.
The utilization of special features
for some of the special OS's such as
PTX and IRIX and these things where
you have to take into account the way
you allocate memory for certain things.
These are the little pieces that
are specific to the various OS's,
but that makes up a
little 8% of what we do.
This means,
this is why I was not joking when I said
if you can give me a login in 30 minutes,
if I'm not on your platform, we will be.
We provide unique mechanisms
to proof the backup.
As I said,
every 2K of data that comes off of
that file system is checksummed when
it leaves the file system because
between the time that it leaves the
file system and the time that it hits
the input buffers on your tape drive,
there are a number of places
where corruption can occur.
Because we check summit that early,
we can tell you very rapidly whether
or not you've got a good backup.
And we can tell you down to 2K
within an existing file on tape
whether that data is any good.
The key here is,
in the event that we run into a problem,
tape media flakes.
How many of you have
never had a tape problem?
and many others.
Thanks for joining us.
We'll see you next time.
Bye-bye.
If you run into a situation,
if any of you have ever used TAR to do a
backup and tried to do a store and been
greeted with something that said TAR,
Tape I/O Read Error, well,
you're not going to see that with Brew.
Well,
unless the tape really is absolutely
bad and it can't be accessed.
Finally, cross-platform,
I mentioned all the
platforms that we're on.
The one other thing that's important
about that is because we utilize the same
tape I/O layer for all of the platforms,
you can take tapes that
you backed up on SGI,
you can restore them on OSX,
or you can send them to
somebody with a SCO box,
or you can send them over to
a Linux platform or a Solaris
platform or any other platform,
and we will allow you to
restore that data intact.
We take account things
like Big Indian versus
Little Indian byte swapping.
If you've ever used CPIO because
you needed to move data
from a Big Indian system
to a Little Indian system,
you know you have to add special flags.
Brew recognizes those changes and
takes care of all that for you,
so when you get into that area,
we've taken care of it.
We are highly extensible- hey,
that should have been highly, Chris.
We are highly extensible via scripts
and compiled- or compiled wrappers.
Brew, as I said, is a very,
very good tool.
It's 290K.
You're able to take that and combine it
with whatever language you want to use:
Cocoa, Carbon, Java, TCL, TK,
Python with TK inner, real basic.
It's your choice.
You can put your own wrapper
around Brew and make it do
things that you want it to do,
but you don't have to worry about how
we get the data to the tape or back from
the tape or to the stage environment.
As developers, if you're interested,
we can talk about that.
We actually provide that 290K
kernel as an OEM product,
and we can help you build
back up into your application.
Brew understands and supports
all Unix and MacOSX elements.
Now,
how many of you saw the Tiger keynote?
How many of you know what an ACL is?
Well, guess what?
Brew 17.0, which is the core of our
current application platform,
does not support Tiger's ACLs.
However, in about two weeks, it will.
We are- Thank you.
We are compatible with OS X-
OS X 1.5 through the latest stuff.
Now, I did a naughty and I installed
Tiger on my laptop and we'll see,
but I have very good feeling
that we are not going to be
facing any problems there.
We leverage the Unix layer of OSX to
provide that small footprint and
high performance with low overhead.
We utilize the SCSI standards,
the standards for tape, SSC,
and for changers, SMC,
to ensure that whether you're using
the smallest firewire device or the
largest fiber channel or SCSI library,
we've got you covered.
We don't also charge extra
for those types of pieces,
so if you've got four libraries,
you're going to pay us
one price for a product.
And like I said, we support all SCSI,
all fiber channel,
all firewire and USB devices natively,
no additional drivers.
So, and I also forgot, of course,
one question that comes up.
Yes, we cover your resource forks
and all of your finder info.
So if it was positioned here on
your desktop when you backed it up,
when you restore it,
it's positioned here on your desktop.
So that's it.
Thanks very much.
and unfortunately I'm not going to
be available tomorrow at the lab,
but you guys can visit us and
Chris has got information on the
web for how to get in touch with
us here at the end of the show.
Alright, great.
Thanks Chris.
Thank you Tim.
Sure.
All right, so now you've seen some great
solutions from Danz and Tolos Group.
So now what we're going to do is look
a little bit more at what we call
the high-end corporate and market.
And to do that, we have BakBone,
even though I spelled the name wrong.
Sorry about that.
It's B-A-K.
But anyway, I'd like to introduce
today Andrew Bowles,
the Senior Director for
Strategic Alliances at BakBone.
Thank you, Chris.
Welcome.
There you go.
Cheers.
Thank you.
[Transcript missing]
You know, again, when we built NetVault,
we built it back in the early
90s like a lot of products.
However,
we took a hit and in the mid-90s, 96, 97,
we rewrote it from the ground
up to take advantage of
network storage environments.
A, it's got a very easy-to-install
GUI-driven product,
but also it has a modular architecture,
an architecture that allows us to
design and develop very quickly.
So, in the case of Oracle 10G for OS X,
we're talking about weeks of development,
not months like some of
our standard competitors,
Veritas and Legato and the
incumbents that have a much
longer rolling development cycle.
Disk-to-Disk,
you've heard about it a lot.
I'd be surprised if most of
you aren't experimenting.
The next step is taking a look
at a virtual tape library,
a virtual disk library,
and it allows your disk device
to look like a tape target.
When Chris talked a little bit
about the growing compliance needs,
this is a way to begin
setting yourself up for that,
a way to migrate off to tape
and do it effectively and also,
naturally, as you heard, recover quickly.
So, again, I think, you know,
if I was asking you to take
a few things away from this,
robust disk-to-disk capability and also
broad choice in the application side.
You know, again,
we don't see that there should
be a trade-off moving to OS X.
We want to give you the
ability to run Oracle,
run MySQL.
SQL and do it on your time.
I want to put a sample graphic up here,
just what a standard,
we call it Acme Engineering,
might look for.
Again, hot backup,
that would be your Oracle, MySQL.
We've been doing this for a long
time and I also want to point out
we've supported FreeBSD in the past.
So for us it was a pretty clean port.
I'd point to a customer that
I spent a lot of time with down
in the peninsula and that's Yahoo.
They chose, they're a large FreeBSD shop.
They run a lot of MySQL,
so for those of you that aren't
sure whether MySQL is ready for the,
an enterprise environment,
I'd urge you to think again.
I think many of you would be surprised,
it's coming a long way, coming fast.
That's 18 data centers across
multiple continents and again,
they're running on FreeBSD.
So I think that Apple in moving
forward with OS X has picked a winning,
winning platform and, you know,
is staying with their mantra which
is all about reducing complexity.
From a backbone in Apple,
it's a lot of data.
From a general standpoint,
we share that as a common vision,
taking more and more complex
environments and making them,
you know, easier and easier to implement.
One thing I want to come- you know,
for you to come away with is A,
we're a company that's
easy to do business with.
We have a sales model
that's entirely indirect.
So, you know,
whether you want to pick up a
partner in the form of Apple and
purchase NetVault through the iStore,
or if you have a common VAR that you're
already used to doing business with,
someone that takes care of your needs,
we're there to enable them.
Backbon as a company
is entirely indirect.
We work with our channel partners,
we work with OEMs such as Apple,
and key ISVs such as Oracle, MySQL,
Sybase, and others.
So, again, I'm looking forward to the
Q&A portion of this session.
I encourage you to throw
some questions our way.
And again, I want to thank Apple and
Chris for having us here.
Thanks a lot.
Good job, thank you.
Alrighty,
batting up our designated hitter,
I guess you could call him.
Actually, we've also invited another
one of our vendors,
Atempo,
who also has a solution targeted up here
with their product called Time Navigator.
So I'd like to welcome Randy Batterson,
Director of Strategic Alliances.
Come on up.
Chris?
All right, thank you.
Well, I'd like to kind of kick everything
off and just give everybody an idea
about who a tempo is and what we do.
Basically, the company- Let's see if
we can get this right here.
I knew I was going to do that.
First time for everything.
But basically,
Tempo's been around for 12 years.
The company was founded in 1992.
We're actually dually located.
We've got a facility in Paris, France.
We also have a facility in Palo Alto,
California, right here in the Bay Area.
We actually consider our product a
best-of-breed for high-performance
enterprise environments.
The product has been
engineered from the ground up.
It's very, very high-performing.
If you look at our customer base,
it's actually a global
1,000 customer base.
We have clients like France Telecom,
huge telecom company.
Been with them for almost seven years,
and they've got about 13 different
sites around the country itself.
And what's really interesting is
that we actually support almost
3,000 clients from a central
location on that particular facility.
So, again, it kind of goes back to that
enterprise functionality.
It's a very, very robust.
It's a very robust product.
We've got almost 2,000
customers worldwide.
And out of those customers,
we've got roughly 3,000 sites.
And I would say a good chunk of those
are all very high-end performance
or high-enterprise-type companies.
And if you really look at it,
some of these customers have a
very high computing requirement.
And that's, again,
a reason that they go to this product,
because we have a strong suite
of business continuity and
compliance solutions to offer them.
The company itself has about
170 employees right now.
We're growing very rapidly.
We've got about 44 technology
people focused just on R&D.
So this really kind of shows
us the commitment that we have
towards developing new products,
just like supporting MacOSX.
And we've put a lot of
emphasis on development,
and I think this kind of shows that most
companies don't have that type of a ratio
of engineers focused just on development.
Some of the industries that
we support include telecom,
finance, manufacturing, education,
government,
a lot of the key industries that are also
touched upon with the Mac environment.
So again, this is a nice marriage
between what we're doing,
supporting MacOSX,
and the industries that
we currently support.
So we think that we're going to have a
really good addition to the Mac family.
Okay, I'm just going to dive in a little
bit here about what the product is.
Time Navigator.
One of the things that we like
to say is that really it's got
the fastest restore period.
And that's- if I can leave
you with one thing today,
just remember that restore
is what we do best.
And we do it really well.
There's some really key
features that help support this.
Kind of going back to
the name Time Navigator,
we do something which is
called time navigation.
And the way we do this,
it's actually the ability to
go back in a point in time,
any given point in time,
we could actually go and retrieve a file
or directory at any instant in the past.
So it's a lot like going
back into the past.
You can actually pick
on a particular date,
time, and bring that file back.
And we do this in a unique way.
We use an object-oriented database.
And why this is unique is if you
look at the way many other solutions
actually perform this function,
they actually do it with
a flat file database.
And what that causes is when you go
and actually do a metadata search,
you're actually going
in a sequential form.
So you actually have to go and, you know,
go down the line and actually find
the information you're looking for,
just like if you were
searching on a tape.
By using an object-oriented database
or a relational type database,
it's instantaneous.
So that search takes a matter of seconds,
nanoseconds.
I mean, you find it, boom, you're there.
What's really nice about time navigation,
too, is the way we actually
display that information.
And what we do is we put it in a
kind of a directory tree structure.
So it's very user-friendly.
It looks just like what you're looking
at in any type of a directory tree.
So if you're looking
for a particular file,
you put the date down that
you're looking for this file.
And what happens is when you click on it,
it does that search instantaneously.
It'll bring back that tree,
and it'll show you exactly the way
your data looked at that point in time.
And what's really nice is it'll
actually show you with little
crosshairs on a particular file if
that file was deleted or there was
a change to that at a point in time.
Now, where we get a little more deep
in this whole search in time,
if you will, is we give you the ability
to do a depth of search.
So you can actually click
on that hatched file,
click on it,
and it'll show you every change
that has ever happened to that file.
And then what you can do at that
point is actually click on any one
of those changes and bring back
that image or the data the way it
looked on that particular time.
So it's very quick.
It's very unique in that sense.
You're getting a, you know,
a point-in-time visual, if you will,
of the way your data looked,
and then you can restore it.
So it's very quick.
Synthetic full backups.
This is another thing that we do.
It's kind of like what -- I guess
what we like to say is that
it's an incremental forever.
What -- if you can imagine when
you go in to do your first backup,
you're going to have to do a full backup,
okay?
After a point in time,
what you're going to
start doing every -- say,
every day if you set up your policies,
what you're going to do is
an incremental after that,
and then another incremental, another.
If you were to do, say, a one-week setup,
and at the end of the week,
say you started your backup on Sunday,
you finished on Saturday,
what's going to happen is offline,
Time Navigator will take
those incrementals and
it will build a new full.
It's a full out of all
those incrementals.
This can go on forever,
and that's why we kind of call it
a forever incremental paradigm.
It keeps doing this forever.
You never have to do a full again.
And you can add points, you know,
delete what happened before so you don't
keep accumulating all that baggage.
Where this is really
unique for the restore,
why it makes it fast,
is going back to that database,
what you're able to do is if
you -- let's go back to the
scenario where you did your full,
and let's say after that first
week you want to go back --
excuse me -- and you want to
actually find a file on Wednesday.
What happens is Time Navigator,
because of the database and
being a relational type database,
will go exactly back to that full.
So you can go back to that full and
you can actually find it back to
that particular file on Wednesday.
So what you don't have to do,
which happens with many
other applications,
is you actually have to
go and load the full,
then go back through, you know,
the Sunday full,
then the incremental Monday,
then the incremental Tuesday,
just to get back to that Wednesday file.
So it makes it very fast.
You're not having to go through that
whole cycle of going through tapes.
Another thing that we do
is macro multiplexing.
Macro multiplexing is really nice in
the sense that if you're familiar with
multiplexing the way it happens today.
Basically,
you're going to get multiple tape
streams coming back to a backup server.
And what happens on the backup cycle
is the data is actually laid down onto
the tape in little bits and pieces.
When you go to do a restore,
you're actually having to go back
and pick out little points of that
file information and feed it through.
And what happens is the
tape drive actually starts
doing a shoe-shining effect.
And this actually slows
down your restore.
What Time Navigator does is
we actually create a buffer.
and when the backup job kicks off,
the data is put into
256 megabyte buckets.
Okay, and these buckets then,
once the backup starts, you know,
feeding into this buffer,
it'll go up to like a watermark
and when that watermark is hit,
the backup job will kick off and the
data will actually start getting laid
down onto the tape and what happens,
it gets laid down on
these 256 megabyte chunks.
Well, when you get to the restore,
instead of having to go
back and look for each,
you know, each little piece of data
like you would with regular
multiplexing or interleaving,
you actually backup using these
big chunks and they come right
back to the server very fast,
basically hitting the theoretical
throughput of the tape drive.
I'm not getting a lot of support there.
Another thing that we do is actually,
this is quite unique.
I think we got a pointer here.
Can you guys see that?
Kind of.
I think I'll just point.
One of the cool things that we do,
actually, on a security standpoint is
we're able to back up through
a firewall using just one port.
Many applications today actually
require opening up multiple ports,
as you can see over here
on the left-hand side.
What happens, thanks.
Actually, what happens is in these
other applications,
you have to open up multiple ports,
many for to initiate the
backup and then many for,
you know, bringing the data through
on the other side.
So you have anywhere from, you know,
10 to 25 ports opened up.
What happens is a lot of
these ports remain idle,
and that opens you up to the threat
of any kind of security attack.
With Time Navigator,
we actually only open up one port.
That's an outbound port opened
up by the administrator.
So everything from the metadata to the
actual data flow to the TCP actually
goes through that particular port.
And again, that's an outbound port,
so it's not open from the outside.
It's open from the inside,
inside the firewall,
so nobody can actually
penetrate from the outside.
This is really cool, too,
because there's a couple
very large deals that we got.
Just to give you an idea, Capgemini,
Ernst & Young, you know, auditors,
I mean, these guys really worry
about protecting their data,
right?
One of the things that they picked us
over or picked us over the competition,
if you will,
was because we had the security feature,
and it was very key for them
to pick us because of that.
Okay, Time Navigator,
just a few more innovations that we have.
End-user simplicity.
You know, a really cool thing that we do
is a data center services model.
The data center services model
actually is something that we have that
allows a user to kind of rent to own,
if you will.
It's kind of like leasing a car.
Instead of actually having to go out and
purchase the product in its entirety,
all up front,
put up a big capital expenditure,
we're allowing customers to
actually kind of pay as you go.
We'll go in, we do an assessment of
the customer's site,
understand what their
data requirements are,
set up kind of a billing cycle,
if you will, for them based on what we
think their usage will be,
and then they're actually able to,
you know, match against that, say,
every quarter and see kind
of where they're at and
just pay on a monthly basis.
At the end of a period of time,
like a year or two years, if they want,
they can actually purchase
the entire thing or,
you know,
just keep using it on a monthly basis.
So it's a real nice way to actually
get into backup and restore,
especially in enterprise environments.
environment,
instead of laying out a lot of cash,
they can do it very cheaply.
Multiple backup streams, up to four.
This is really a very unique
feature that we have also.
So if you can imagine,
if you're backing up to, say, an X-ray,
and you want to kind of
invoke some DR features,
and it's something a
lot of people are doing.
I know we've been talking
about DDD to tape.
This actually gives you the
ability to back up to four
different devices at the same time.
So the same data stream can be backed up
asynchronously to four different devices,
and it can be any mix of devices.
It could be tape, disk, MO,
and it could be any number.
So you could have two disks, one tape,
one MO.
And where this comes into play is,
for example, if you're going to have
some kind of a DR scenario.
So you're backing up to the X-ray,
and you want to back up to a disk
locally just to have something near line.
At the same time,
you want to have something offline,
and that would be, say,
an off-site DR site.
You can do those asynchronously.
So if one breaks,
the other one's going to go regardless.
And we can do it up to four.
So if you want to have
four different sites,
we can do it.
[Transcript missing]
and Flexible API and CLI.
Basically, API set,
we touch on every feature in the product.
This is really key too.
I mean, if you've got different products
within your environment and you're not
sure if they're supported or maybe we
don't support them through our APIs,
it's very easy to write and
support the product set.
CLI, you know, command line interface,
same thing.
If there's some scripting that needs
to be done to support a product,
we can do it very easily.
So that's about it.
But one thing if I can leave with
you today is that Time Navigator
basically is the fastest restore period.
And that's something that will, you know,
challenge anybody on.
We've got some really good features
and we think they're great.
So thank you very much.
Thank you Randy.
So you see some really excellent
solutions from a number of vendors
that support the MacOSX platform.
So just kind of tie it all up again to
kind of repeat what we talked about.
So we looked at initially some
of the storage trends that's
driving the market today.
Everything from compliance to the
need to reduce your backup window,
and that's driving your strategy for
how you need to backup your systems.
We looked at a number of
different backup architectures.
Obviously just regular backup,
accessing your man- doing
disk- to-disk-to-tape,
to land free.
And then as you see we have a
wealth of backup choices available,
meaning any need you would have
in your particular environment.
And last but not least,
I'd like to invite you tomorrow
morning in the Enterprise IT Lab.
I will have everybody here.
We have some demos showing
some of their equipment.
Any question you have on backup,
I'm sure we'd be able to answer it
there tomorrow at the Enterprise IT Lab.
So if you have an opportunity, please,
please just stop by and see us
and we'll be glad to have you.
All right.
Contact information.
For myself, Pat, Tim, Andrew, and Randy.
And I'd like to ask my four colleagues
to come on up and join us here.